# webscraping-challenge

Analyzing the Mars data involved first web scaping the site that contained the Mars news article done using Beautiful Soup. The text form the Mars articles were extracted and a for loop was used to go through each article to find the title and the preview excerpt. Then the site containing a table of Mars weather data was scraped to extract it from the table and a for loop was used to go through the rows of the table to pull only the text from each row, and that was added to a list which was then converted to a pandas data frame. After inspecting the columns, it was determined that some of them needed the data types to be converted to either a datetime, integer, or float type. To find how many months there are in Mars, a group by and a count was done on the month column, showing there are 12 months on Mars. There are 1867 Martian days of data that was found by doing a count on the terrestrial date column of the data frame. Another group by on the month was done, but this time the mean of the minimum daily temperature was calculated to find the average minimum temperature by each month. The coldest month on Mars is the third month and the warmest month is the eigth month. The average minimum temperature for each month was then placed into a bar chart. The data was also sorted in ascending order, and that was placed into a bar chart. To find which months have the lowest and highest atmospheric pressure, a group by on the month column was completed again with the average of the pressure column calculated for each month, and that was sorted in ascending order and placed into a bar chair as well. From the chart it can be seen that the sixth month has the lowest average daily atmospheric pressure, while the ninth month has the highest. Lastly, the minimum temperature for each day was plotted and it can be visually esitmated that there are around 700 earth days in the time it takes Mars to circle around the sun once. The data frame that was created was then written into a CSV and was exported. 
